
Dark current and Gain&offset description from the ASD FieldSpec 4 manual.

----------------------------------
E.7 Dark Current Measurement

Dark current refers to current generated within a detector in the absence of any external photons. Dark current is the amount of electrical current that is inherent in the spectrometer detectors and other electrical components and is additive to the signal generated by the measured external optical radiation.
Noise is the uncertainty in a given measurement, one channel at a time. Noise, by definition, is random. You can reduce noise by using more samples and averaging the spectra or by increasing the sample count. Dark current is different from noise; it is relatively stable and can be characterized.
This manual uses dark current to refer to all systematic contributions to the detector signal. Dark current is a property of the detector and the associated electronics (not the light source). Dark current varies with temperature. In the VNIR region, dark current also varies with integration time.
Whenever you take dark current, the dark current calibration file is referenced. This signal is subtracted from each subsequent spectrum until another dark current is taken. The SWIR spectrometers take and subtract dark current on every scan.
You can update the dark current measurement at any time, but should update it more frequently in the beginning of a given session while the instrument warms up.
The VNIR spectrometer is fitted with a unique software and hardware combination called driftlock. Driftlock corrects for dark current changes over time. It automatically updates dark current for every measurement by looking at a series of masked pixels at the front portion of the VNIR array. The driftlock feature corrects for the majority of dark current variation over time.


----------------------------------

E.9 Gain and Offset
The gain value is the inverse of actual gain. A decrease in gain value will produce a higher gain. The maximum gain value is 16. Under the low light levels that create such a gain, small changes in offset will translate into large changes in dynamic range.
Offset causes a downward shift (from Y=32,768 DN) in a SWIR spectrum such that the maximum value of the spectrum and the minimum value of the spectrum (dark current - off screen) are equidistant from the line Y=32,768. Under ideal conditions, where there is enough light, there will be about 32,768 DN of signal immediately after optimization, +/- 1,000.
This means that optimization “creates” about 16,000 DN of dark current and about 16,000 DN of dynamic range. But this dynamic range will disappear with either a slight increase in signal (if the signal started out low to begin with) or a slight increase in dark current (increases with ambient temperature).
